Man's best friend has historically been considered a dog. But dogs are not the only animal friend whose camaraderie people enjoy. For many people, a cat is their best friend. Despite what dog lovers may believe, cats make excellent house pets because they are good companions, they are civilized members of the household, and they are easy to care for. Let me tell you why.
Cats are good companions. They will snuggle up and ask to be petted or scratched under the chin, and who can resist a purring cat? If they're not feeling affectionate, cats are generally quite playful; they love to chase balls and feathers — or just about anything dangling from a string. And when they’re tired from chasing laser pointers, cats will curl up in your lap to nap. Cats are loyal housemates.
Cats are also civilized housemates. Unlike dogs, cats don’t bark or make other loud noises; most cats don't even meow that often. Cats don't usually have accidents; mother cats train their kittens to use the litter box, and most cats will use it without fail from that time on. Cats do have claws, but a tall scratching post in a favorite cat area of the house will often keep the cat content to leave the furniture alone. Compared with other pets, cats are actually quite polite.
Cats are easy to care for. They don’t have to be walked because they get plenty of exercise in the house as they play. Even cleaning their litter box can be a quick, painless procedure. Cats also take care of their own grooming; bathing a cat is almost never necessary because under ordinary circumstances cats clean themselves. Cats are so easy to care for they can be left home alone for a few hours without fear.
Cats are low maintenance, civilized companions. People who have small living quarters appreciate having a cat. People who have less time for pet care appreciate having a cat. However, even people who have plenty of space and time still opt to have a cat because they love the cat personality. In many ways, cats are an ideal house pet.